First Sign Up for AWS
When you sign up for Amazon Web Services (AWS), your AWS account is automatically signed up for all services in AWS, including Amazon EC2. 
You are charged only for the services that you use.

# Getting Started with Amazon EC2 Linux Instances
Step 1: Launch an Instance
  You can launch a Linux instance using the AWS Management Console as described in the following procedure. 

  # To launch an instance
  1 - Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.

  2 - From the console dashboard, choose Launch Instance.

  3 -The Choose an Amazon Machine Image (AMI) page displays a list of basic configurations, called Amazon Machine Images (AMIs), that serve as templates for your instance. 
  Select an Ubuntu LTS 18.04. Notice that these AMIs are marked "Free tier eligible."

  4 - On the Choose an Instance Type page, you can select the hardware configuration of your instance. Select the t2.micro type, which is selected by default. Notice that this instance type is eligible for the free tier.

  5 - Choose Review and Launch to let the wizard complete the other configuration settings for you.

  6 - On the Review Instance Launch page, under Security Groups, you'll see that the wizard created and selected a security group for you. You can use this security group, or alternatively you can select the security group that you created when getting set up using the following steps:
      a - Choose Edit security groups.
      b - On the Configure Security Group page, ensure that Select an existing security group is selected.
      c - Select your security group from the list of existing security groups, and then choose Review and Launch.

  7 - On the Review Instance Launch page, choose Launch.

  8 - When prompted for a key pair, select Choose an existing key pair, then select the key pair that you created when getting set up.
      Alternatively, you can create a new key pair. Select Create a new key pair, enter a name for the key pair, and then choose Download Key Pair. 
      This is the only chance for you to save the private key file, so be sure to download it. Save the private key file in a safe place. 
      You'll need to provide the name of your key pair when you launch an instance and the corresponding private key each time you connect to the instance.

     Warning
     Don't select the Proceed without a key pair option. If you launch your instance without a key pair, then you can't connect to it.

  9 - When you are ready, select the acknowledgement check box, and then choose Launch Instances.

  10 - A confirmation page lets you know that your instance is launching. Choose View Instances to close the confirmation page and return to the console.

  11 - On the Instances screen, you can view the status of the launch. It takes a short time for an instance to launch. When you launch an instance, its initial state is pending. After the instance starts, its state changes to running and it receives a public DNS name. (If the Public DNS (IPv4) column is hidden, choose Show/Hide Columns (the gear-shaped icon) in the top right corner of the page and then select Public DNS (IPv4).)

  12 - It can take a few minutes for the instance to be ready so that you can connect to it. Check that your instance has passed its status checks; you can view this information in the Status Checks column.

Step 2: Connect to Your Instance

  # Prerequisites
  Before you connect to your Linux instance, complete the following prerequisites.

  # Verify that the instance is ready
  After you launch an instance, it can take a few minutes for the instance to be ready so that you can connect to it. Check that your instance has passed its status checks. 
  You can view this information in the Status Checks column on the Instances page.

  # Install an SSH client on your local computer as needed
  Your local computer might have an SSH client installed by default. You can verify this by typing ssh at the command line. 
  If your compute doesn't recognize the command, you can install an SSH client.

  Recent versions of Windows Server 2019 and Windows 10 - OpenSSH is included as an installable component. For information, see OpenSSH in Windows.
  Earlier versions of Windows - Download and install OpenSSH. For more information, see Win32-OpenSSH.
  Linux and macOS X - Download and install OpenSSH. For more information, see http://www.openssh.com.

  # Connect to Your Linux Instance using an SSH Client
  Use the following procedure to connect to your Linux instance using an SSH client. If you receive an error while attempting to connect to your instance, see Troubleshooting Connecting to Your Instance.

  To connect to your instance using SSH
  In a terminal window, use the ssh command to connect to the instance. 
  You specify the path and file name of the private key (.pem), the user name for your AMI, and the public DNS name or IPv6 address for your instance. For more information about how to find the private key, the user name for an AMI, and the DNS name or IPv6 address for an instance, see Locate the Private Key and Get Information About Your Instance. To connect to your instance, do one of the following:

  Example:
  (Public DNS) To connect using your instance's public DNS, enter the following command.

  ssh -i /path/my-key-pair.pem ec2-user@ec2-198-51-100-1.compute-1.amazonaws.com
  (IPv6) Alternatively, if your instance has an IPv6 address, to connect using your instance's IPv6 address, enter the following command.

  ssh -i /path/my-key-pair.pem ec2-user@2001:db8:1234:1a00:9691:9503:25ad:1761
  You see a response like the following:

  The authenticity of host 'ec2-198-51-100-1.compute-1.amazonaws.com (10.254.142.33)'
  can't be established.
  RSA key fingerprint is 1f:51:ae:28:bf:89:e9:d8:1f:25:5d:37:2d:7d:b8:ca:9f:f5:f1:6f.
  Are you sure you want to continue connecting (yes/no)?
  (Optional) Verify that the fingerprint in the security alert matches the fingerprint that you previously obtained in (Optional) Get the Instance Fingerprint. If these fingerprints don't match, someone might be attempting a "man-in-the-middle" attack. If they match, continue to the next step.

  Enter yes. You see a response like the following:
  Warning: Permanently added 'ec2-198-51-100-1.compute-1.amazonaws.com' (RSA) 
  to the list of known hosts.
